# $Id: Log.pod,v 1.1.1.1 2001/01/31 03:58:53 zarzycki Exp $
#
# Copyright (c) 2000 Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved.
#  
# By using this file, you agree to the terms and conditions set forth bellow.
# 
#                      LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
# 
# The following License Terms and Conditions apply, unless a different
# license is obtained from Japan Network Information Center ("JPNIC"),
# a Japanese association, Fuundo Bldg., 1-2 Kanda Ogawamachi, Chiyoda-ku,
# Tokyo, Japan.
# 
# 1. Use, Modification and Redistribution (including distribution of any
#    modified or derived work) in source and/or binary forms is permitted
#    under this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 2. Redistribution of source code must retain the copyright notices as they
#    appear in each source code file, this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 3. Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the Copyright Notice,
#    this License Terms and Conditions, in the documentation and/or other
#    materials provided with the distribution.  For the purposes of binary
#    distribution the "Copyright Notice" refers to the following language:
#    "Copyright (c) Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved."
# 
# 4. Neither the name of JPNIC may be used to endorse or promote products
#    derived from this Software without specific prior written approval of
#    JPNIC.
# 
# 5. Disclaimer/Limitation of Liability: THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JPNIC
#    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
#    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
#    PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JPNIC BE LIABLE
#    FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
#    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
#    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
#    BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
#    WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
#    OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
#    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
# 
# 6. Indemnification by Licensee
#    Any person or entities using and/or redistributing this Software under
#    this License Terms and Conditions shall defend indemnify and hold
#    harmless JPNIC from and against any and all judgements damages,
#    expenses, settlement liabilities, cost and other liabilities of any
#    kind as a result of use and redistribution of this Software or any
#    claim, suite, action, litigation or proceeding by any third party
#    arising out of or relates to this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 7. Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue
#    This License Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and and
#    construed in accordance with the law of Japan. Any person or entities
#    using and/or redistributing this Software under this License Terms and
#    Conditions hereby agrees and consent to the personal and exclusive
#    jurisdiction and venue of Tokyo District Court of Japan.
#

__END__

=head1 NAME

MDN::Log - libmdn の log モジュール用の Perl の拡張

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use MDN::Log;
  MDN::Log->setproc_none();
  MDN::Log->setproc_stderr();
  MDN::Log->setlevel('warning');
  $level = MDN::Log->getlevel();

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<MDN::Log> は、mDNkit に入っている MDN ライブラリ (多言語ドメインを
扱うための C のライブラリ) の中の ログモジュール (log モジュール) に対
して、Perl のインターフェースを提供します。

このモジュールを使うことで、ログメッセージの処理方法を制御することがで
きます。

=head1 CLASS METHODS

このモジュールはオブジェクトインターフェースを提供するわけでありません
が、C<MDN::> の他のモジュールとの一貫性を考慮して、関数はすべてクラス
メソッドとして呼び出すようになっています。

	MDN::Log->setlevel('warning');	# 正しい
	MDN::Log::setlevel('warning');	# 誤り

=over 4

=item setlevel($level)

ログのレベルを C<$level> に設定します。
C<$level> として指定可能な値は、C<'fatal'>、C<'error'>、C<'warning'>、
C<'info'>、C<'trace'>、C<'debug'> です。

レベルの初期設定は、環境変数 C<MDN_LOG_LEVEL> から決定されます。

=item getlevel()

現在のログレベルを返します。

=item setproc_stderr()

ログハンドラを 初期設定のものに戻します。
このログハンドラは、標準エラー出力にログメッセージを出力します。

=item setproc_none()

ログハンドラとして、何もしないハンドラをセットします。
C<MDN::> モジュールは何もログメッセージを出力しなくなります。

=item setproc([&handler])

ログハンドラを C<&handler> にセットします。
C<&handler> は、引数としてログレベルとログメッセージの文字列を
この順序で受け取ります。

	sub my_handler {
	    my ($level, $message) = @_;
	    # (ログメッセージの処理...)
	}

C<&handler> が省略されると、ログハンドラはリセットされて初期設
定のものに戻ります。
これは C<setproc_stderr()> と同じです。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

MDN ライブラリ仕様書

=cut
