# $Id: Normalizer.pod,v 1.1.1.1 2001/01/31 03:58:53 zarzycki Exp $
#
# Copyright (c) 2000 Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved.
#  
# By using this file, you agree to the terms and conditions set forth bellow.
# 
#                      LICENSE TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
# 
# The following License Terms and Conditions apply, unless a different
# license is obtained from Japan Network Information Center ("JPNIC"),
# a Japanese association, Fuundo Bldg., 1-2 Kanda Ogawamachi, Chiyoda-ku,
# Tokyo, Japan.
# 
# 1. Use, Modification and Redistribution (including distribution of any
#    modified or derived work) in source and/or binary forms is permitted
#    under this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 2. Redistribution of source code must retain the copyright notices as they
#    appear in each source code file, this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 3. Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the Copyright Notice,
#    this License Terms and Conditions, in the documentation and/or other
#    materials provided with the distribution.  For the purposes of binary
#    distribution the "Copyright Notice" refers to the following language:
#    "Copyright (c) Japan Network Information Center.  All rights reserved."
# 
# 4. Neither the name of JPNIC may be used to endorse or promote products
#    derived from this Software without specific prior written approval of
#    JPNIC.
# 
# 5. Disclaimer/Limitation of Liability: THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY JPNIC
#    "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
#    LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
#    PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL JPNIC BE LIABLE
#    FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
#    CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
#    SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR
#    BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
#    WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
#    OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
#    ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
# 
# 6. Indemnification by Licensee
#    Any person or entities using and/or redistributing this Software under
#    this License Terms and Conditions shall defend indemnify and hold
#    harmless JPNIC from and against any and all judgements damages,
#    expenses, settlement liabilities, cost and other liabilities of any
#    kind as a result of use and redistribution of this Software or any
#    claim, suite, action, litigation or proceeding by any third party
#    arising out of or relates to this License Terms and Conditions.
# 
# 7. Governing Law, Jurisdiction and Venue
#    This License Terms and Conditions shall be governed by and and
#    construed in accordance with the law of Japan. Any person or entities
#    using and/or redistributing this Software under this License Terms and
#    Conditions hereby agrees and consent to the personal and exclusive
#    jurisdiction and venue of Tokyo District Court of Japan.
#

__END__

=head1 NAME

MDN::Normalizer - libmdn の normalizer モジュール用の Perl の拡張

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use MDN::Normalizer;
  $context = MDN::Normalizer->new();
  $context->add('unicode-uppercase', 'unicode-form-kc');

  # Upon success, $normalized should contain "DOMAIN-NAME".
  $normalized = $context->normalize("domain-name")
      or die MDN::Normalizer->lasterror(), "\n";

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<MDN::Normalizer> は、mDNkit に入っている MDN ライブラリ (多言語ドメ
インを扱うための C のライブラリ) の中のドメイン名正規化ジュール
(normalizer モジュール) に対して、Perl のオブジェクトインターフェース
を提供します。

正規化モジュールの各オブジェクトは、UTF-8 でエンコードされた文字列を
受け取り、その文字列に対して正規化を行い、結果を返すという処理を行う
ことができます。

=head1 コンストラクタ

=over 4

=item new([$scheme_name...])

ドメイン名の正規化オブジェクトを生成します。
指定された C<$scheme_name> は C<add()> メソッドに渡されます。
C<add()> が 0 を返して来た場合、このコンストラクタは C<undef> を返しま
す。

=back

=head1 メソッド

=over 4

=item add([$scheme_name...])

正規化オブジェクトに正規化処理を追加します。

指定可能な正規化処理は
C<'ascii-uppercase'>、
C<'ascii-lowercase'>、
C<'unicode-uppercase'>、
C<'unicode-lowercase'>、
C<'unicode-unicode-form-c'>、
C<'unicode-unicode-form-kc'>、
C<'ja-compose-voiced-sound'>、
C<'ja-kana-fullwidth'>、
C<'ja-alnum-halfwidth'>、
C<'ja-minus-hack'>、
C<'ja-delimiter-hack'> です。

個々の正規化処理について詳しくは L<mdnres.conf(5)> をご覧下さい。

このメソッドは追加に成功すれば 1 を、失敗すれば 0 を返します。

=item normalize($from)

登録された正規化処理に従って文字列 C<$from> を正規化し、結果を返します。
複数の正規化処理が登録されているときは、処理は登録順にそれぞれ実行され
ます。
C<$from> は UTF-8 でエンコードされた文字列でなければなりません。

C<$from> が不正な UTF-8 文字列であれば、C<undef> が返ります。

=back

=head1 クラスメソッド

=over 4

=item lasterror()

このモジュール内で一番最後に発生したエラーのエラーメッセージ文字列を
返します。

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<MDN::Converter>, L<mdnres.conf(5)>

MDN ライブラリ仕様書

=cut
