.\" $Id: cvtstatic.1,v 1.1.1.1 2001/01/31 03:59:16 zarzycki Exp $
.TH CVTSTATIC 1 $Date: 2001/01/31 03:59:16 $
.UC 4
.SH NAME
cvtstatic \- convert an /etc/hosts file to updatehosts database format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvtstatic
[
.B -a
]
[
-c
.B -d default_domain
[
.B -h
]
[
.B -i ip_address_prefix
]
.B -o output_directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B cvtstatic
is a utility to convert an existing /etc/hosts file to
.B updatehosts
format.
The hosts file is read from stdin.
The output is a set of
.B updatehosts
relations located in the directory specified by the -d option.
.PP
The -a will append output to an already existing set of relations.
.PP
The -c option will add comments from the zone file.
The comments are placed in the same location they are found in the zone
file.
.PP
The -d option is required and specifies the default domain name for this
set of input records.
.PP
The -h option outputs a short command synopsis.
.PP
The -i option specifies an option IP address prefix for the IP addresses
found in A records.
.PP
The -o option which is required specifies a directory where the
.B updatehosts relations are found.
.SH
Readinfo Record Generation
.PP
.B cvtstatic
generates
.B readinfo
records using the default domain and the IP address prefix to
generate a correct #FIELDS line which allows domain names and IP addresses
to be written in a shorthand manner.
All domains are shortened by chopping off the default domain name suffix.
Those domain names which are in a different domain are written fully
qualified with a trailing period.
.PP
If the -i option is present all IP addresses which start with the IP prefix
have it removed.
All other IP address will be written as a standard dotted decimal IP
address with a leading period (".").
The leading period denotes that the default IP prefix is not prepended to
the address.
Without the -i option all IP addresses are written in standard
dotted-decimal notation and there is no default prefix for IP addresses.
.PP
Each invocation of
.B cvtstatic
generates a new
.B readinfo
#FIELDS line.
This is convenient when converting multiple hosts files where the default
domain or the default IP prefix have different values.
.SH
See also
.PP
.B updatehosts(1), gendns(1), readinfo(1)
