.\" $Id: gendhcp.1,v 1.1.1.1 2001/01/31 03:59:16 zarzycki Exp $
.TH GENDHCP 1 $Date: 2001/01/31 03:59:16 $
.UC 4
.SH NAME
gendhcp \- generate a DHCP bootstrap file from flat relational tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gendhcp
[
.B -d dbdirectory
]
[
.B -k
]
[
.B -v
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gendhcp
is a back end to the
.B updatehosts
command.
It should normally only be invoked from the
.B updatehosts
command.
.PP
.B gendhcp
converts a set of flat (relational) files into a DHCP server bootstrap
file.
All input files are kept in the
.B dbdirectory
which can be specified by the -d command line option.
The output file which is named dhcpd.conf is placed in the current directory.
When run under
.B updatehosts
the current directory is normally
.B /var/named
and the input directory is normally
.B /var/named/db.
However, these defaults may be different depending upon the updatehosts
configuration.
See the
.B updatehosts(1)
manual page for details.
.PP
The -k option generates a bootstrap file so only known hosts (e.g. those
with registered MAC layer addresses can bootstrap. This option is off by
default which allows any host to boot.
The -v option generates additional output on the progress of the bootstrap
file generation.
.SH
Input File Formats
.PP
.B gendhcp
uses
.B readinfo
to preprocess the input files.
The format of each file consists of a set of records separated into fields.
Care should be taken to insure the field names are not altered.  Otherwise
.B gendhcp
will complain.
Each fields attributes should be examined carefully when editing the input
files.
Each file used by gendhcp is described as follows:
.TP
main:
Contains information about each host.  The fields from this file used by
.B gendhcp
are as follows:
.RS
.TP
host:
The domain name of the host.
.TP
ip:
The IP address of the host. This field may be set to "dynamic" to indicate
this host will be given a dynamic IP address when it boots.  If the IP
address is a normal IP address then the DHCP configuration will use the
static IP address indicated.
.TP
ether:
The hardware MAC address of the host. This must be present for statically
configured hosts or for dynamic hosts when the -k flag is set.  
.RE
.PP
subnet:
Contains information about subnets used to generate the
DHCP configuration files
.RS
.TP
subnet:
The subnet prefix in dotted decimal notation
.TP
mask:
The mask of the subnet in dotted-decimal
.TP
gateway:
The IP address of the default gateway for the subnet
dns:
The IP address of one or more DNS servers separated with commas.
.TP
domain:
The default domain.
.TP
time:
The IP address of one or more NTP timeserver separated with commas.
.TP
hardware:
The hardware type of the clients (defaults to ether).
.TP
dhcprange:
Range of IP addresses used for dynamic allocation of IP addresses.
.TP
maxdhcplease:
Maximum time in seconds before a DHCP lease expires.
.TP
dynamicbootp:
Allows dynamic BOOTP (defaults to no).
.SH
See also
.PP
.B gendns(1)
.B poke_dhcp(1)
.B poke_ns(1)
.B updatehosts(1)
