.\" $Id: poke_dhcp.1,v 1.1.1.1 2001/01/31 03:59:16 zarzycki Exp $
.TH POKE_DHCP 1 $Date: 2001/01/31 03:59:16 $
.UC 4
.SH NAME
poke_ns \- restarts a running DHCP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B poke_dhcp
poke_dhcp
[
restart | reload | debug | nodebug | dump | terminate
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B poke_ns
sends process control signals to a running bind nameserver.
Without any options
.B poke-ns
emits a help message.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
restart:
Terminates the running nameserver by the sending the TERM signal and
restarts the nameserver. 
.TP
reload:
Send the HUP signal to the running nameserver which instructs it to reload
all its zone files.
.TP
debug:
Sends the USR1 signal to the nameserver which causes it to write
debugging output to the
.B named_run
file.
The
.B named_run
file is created in the 
.B /var/tmp
directory with a version 4 nameserver or in current directory with a
version 8 nameserver.
Sending another USR1 signal increases the level of debugging output.
.TP
nodebug:
Turn off debugging output by sending the SIGUSR2 signal to the running
nameserver.
.TP
dump:
Sends the INT signal which causes the nameserver to dump a copy of its
internal database files to the
.B named_dump.db
file.
.TP
terminate:
Sends the TERM signal which causes the running nameserver to terminate.
.SH Configuration File
.PP
.B poke_ns
uses a simple environment file which sets various default parameters.
Parameters are set using a parameter=value syntax.
The environment file is normally located in
.B /usr/local/etc/poke_ns.env.
Parameters settable in this file are:
.TP
DB_DUMP:
Pathname of the database dump file.
DEBUG:
Pathname of the debug output file.
.TP
NAMED:
Pathname of the nameserver executable to use when restarting the server.
.TP
PIDFILE:
Pathname of the file which contains the process id of the running nameserver.
.PP
The environment file is checked to be sure it is only writable by root,
since poke_ns is normally setuid root and only executable by a
group responsible for nameserver maintenance.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR gendns(1),
.BR genstatic(1),
.BR updatehosts(1)
