.\"
.\"   Distributed with: Doc - Version 2.0 (8/22/90)
.\"   USC Information Sciences Institute
.\"
.\"   DOC - Version 2.1.1 (5/27/95)
.\"   Defense Information Systems Agency
.\"
.\"	doc.8	2.1.1 (DISA) 5/27/95
.TH DOC 8 5/27/95
.SH NAME
doc \- diagnose unhealthy DNS domains
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B doc
.RI [-p]
.RI [-e][-w][-v][-d]
.I domain_name
.RI [parent_domain_name]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIDoc\fP is an automated tool for verifying (to an extent) that a
domain is configured and functioning correctly.  It makes no
attempt to validate the data inside a domain, only the structure.
The only required parameter is the valid domain name of an existing
domain.  Example:
.sp 1
		doc isi.edu.
.sp 1
Previous versions of \fIdoc\fP required that you specify the parent
(delegating) domain if it was not precisely one level up from the
domain being checked (or specify the parent nameservers in an
appropriately named file).  Although the option still exists to do
that (and it may be required with some complex configurations), some
heuristics have been added that make some attempt to handle parent
domains that are more than one level up from the current domain.
Examples:
.sp 1
.nf
	doc isi.edu. edu.			(correct, but not required)
	doc isi.edu.    			(this works too)
	doc 9.128.in-addr.arpa. arpa.	(correct, but not required)
	doc 9.128.in-addr.arpa.		(this works too)
.fi
.sp 1
If you have problems, giving the parent information information
explicitly may help.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-p"
Skip testing the information held at delegating domain's servers.
.sp 1
The default operation of \fIdoc\fP includes testing that all of the
servers for the delegating (parent) domain agree about the
delegation information held for the domain in question.  Since
inconsistencies discovered at this level may or may not indicate
serious problems, one can choose to skip the parent testing.
If so, \fIdoc\fP uses the first non-authoritative list of NS records
from a parent domain server as those to direct further queries.
If all of the parent domain servers are additionally authoritative
for the domain, the answer from the last one queried is used.
This may be a useful timesaver if you are regularly checking up
on a large number of domains.  [See also section FILES USED for
a similar functionality.]

.IP "\-[e][w][v][d]  Specify the level of verbosity to standard output."
.sp 1
The default mode of operation is to only print to standard output
a summary of what is discovered.  In addition, errors made in the
process of testing (i.e. query errors, errors causing \fIdoc\fP to
abort, etc) are noted.
.sp 1
.nf
    -e	Output comments about errors discovered.
    -w	Output comments about warnings issued.
    -v	Verbose output. Include misc. comments and output
		confirming correct behavior.
    -d	Debug output. Checkpoint current (last)
		nameserver query.
.fi
.sp 1
These output options are cumulative (i.e. -v implies -v -w -e).
.sp 1
\fBNOTE:\fP Parsing is very simple.  All option flags must come
before the domain names.
.SH FILES CREATED
In addition to the standard output, \fIdoc\fP produces a log file
named log.<domain_name>, which it places in the current
directory.  This file includes all "verbose" level comments,
followed by the nameserver responses to the queries (in a
slightly masticated form).
.sp 1
While running, \fIdoc\fP creates several temporary files in the
current directory.  These files have names of the form:
.sp 1
	<domain_name>.* 
.SH FILES USED
\fIDoc\fP expects the auxiliary files: doc1.awk, doc3.awk, and
doc4.awk to reside in the current working directory.  This can be
overridden by changing the program to look for them in a directory
indicated in a shell variable intended for this purpose.  If your
System Administrator installed \fIdoc\fP, they'll need to make the
necessary modification.
.sp 1
\fIDoc\fP looks for the file DNsrv.<parent_domain_name> in the
working directory.  If it exists, \fIdoc\fP does not make a standard
query to discover the list of nameservers for the parent domain.
Rather it queries the list of servers contained in this file to
obtain delegation information for the domain being tested.  This
may be useful if one regularly tests a series of domains, all
with the same delegating zone, where one of the servers in known
to be foul.  This server would simply be omitted from the the
DNsrv.* file.
.sp 1
awk, sed & dig (version 2.0 or higher) are expected to be found
in your normal path.  If not, you may want to alias to the full
path inside of \fIdoc\fP itself.
.SH DETAILS
See file INFO (included with distribution tar) for details of
procedure.

.SH BUGS
The exit code returned via the shell is only 8 bits.  This could
cause a problem in the value returned by the auxiliary file doc3.awk.
This hasn't been seen yet (a "poison configuration" is not likely to
occur yet), and hopefully will be corrected if/when
\fIdoc\fP is re-implemented (see below).
.sp 1
The current implementation is fairly simple (albeit not pretty),
so it is not expected to abort unexpectedly.  However, this
version (2.0) is an initial attempt at automating this task.
Further development is expected in identifying the appropriate
queries, analysis, and subsequent conclusions that are made.
Hopefully once the design of the test suite has become more stable,
a less "patchwork" production version of \fIdoc\fP will be done.
.SH COMMENTS
The previous authors effectively stopped further development and
support in 1990.  Starting with version 2.1, the official anonymous
FTP site for \fIdoc\fP is ftp.vix.com as part of the the latest
distribution of BIND (see the BIND Home Page at
<URL:http://www.isc.org/isc/>).  It will likely also be made
available in the DNS Resource Directory
<URL:http://www.is.co.za/andras/computer/dnsrd/> in the near future.
.sp 1
Relatively minor modifications have been made with version 2.1,
mostly to make the program a bit more robust in handling parent
(delegating) domains for the use of Defense Information Systems
Agency personnel.
.sp 1
This program is being shared with the rest of the Internet on a
unsupported basis.  If you have any enhancements or changes you have
made, please let us know.  We'd love to see them, with an eye towards
integrating them into our version (and also into the publicly
available version).  However, keep in mind that I'm not getting paid
(nor do I have the time) to support the whole Internet on this tool.
.sp 1
With the previous authors no longer providing support for \fIdoc\fP,
it becomes far less likely that a "less 'patchwork' production
version" will ever become available.
.SH INFO
The name \fIdoc\fP comes from Domain Obscenity Control, in that the
kinds of problems it looks for are considered "obscene" from the
perspective of a well-managed DNS.
.SH TO DO
RFC 1537 SOA value conformance checking (warnings only).
.SH PREVIOUS AUTHORS
Steve Hotz (hotz@isi.edu)
Paul Mockapetris (pvm@isi.edu)
.SH MODIFICATIONS BY
Brad Knowles (brad@birch.ims.disa.mil)
.SH SEE ALSO
dig(1),  bind operators guide (BOG),  RFCs: 1034,1035,1535-1537,1713,xxxx
